First of all, congratulations;
you've survived a business crisis,
and that's no small feat.
But before you get too comfortable,
remember that you're not out of the woods yet.
There's still a lot of work to do.
That's because no business
comes out of the crisis 100% unscathed.
Like a boulder that's been hurdled into company waters,
a crisis can create a ripple effect of damages
on your company's finances, customers,
reputation, operations, or staff.
Recovery takes time and effort,
and, here, you'll learn how to best focus those efforts.
But, first, let's start
with the basic definition
and goals of crisis recovery.
Recovery is the process
of returning to normal business operations
and rebuilding or recovering
what was lost due to a crisis.
It's the aftermath of a crisis,
when you clean up the mess.
There are five activities
that your recovery process
must entail to be effective.
The first one is to take care of the victims.
Follow up with the people
who were hurt or harmed by the crisis
by making sure they are out of danger.
Be ready to connect them
with counseling or support services,
and offer appropriate compensation
for damages caused by the company.
Ask yourself, what's the right thing
to do in this situation, then do it.
A genuine and generous approach to compensating victims
will help to restore your reputation.
It's also essential to continue
internal and external communications.
Provide all of the information
that you said you would during the crisis.
Maintain external communications
and give updates about what your company
is doing to take corrective action.
Also, don't forget to develop
an internal communications plan
to talk about the crisis with employees.
Don't minimize the incident's impact.
Instead, listen to employees' concerns,
and include them in conversations
about how to make impactful changes
in workplace policies or practices.
The third critical activity
is to develop a strategy
to repair your reputation.
Negative press, social media,
stories, and other forms of publicity
can linger in online search engines
well after the crisis is over.
Your team needs to develop a strategy
to counteract the negative content,
generate positive or valuable content
that's associated with your brand,
and rebuild your reputation.
Fourth is conducting a post-incident review, or PIR.
A PIR evaluates the factors
that contributed to a crisis,
what actions your team took
to respond to the crisis,
and the strengths and weaknesses of your response.
In other words, it gives you clarity
about what happened, why it happened,
how your company responded, and how you can improve.
Gather the members of your crisis response team
to identify strengths and weaknesses
in areas such as crisis prevention and preparation,
detection and notification,
assessment and mobilization,
and internal and external communications.
Finally, you must learn from past mistakes
and take correction action.
Use your PIR to help you brainstorm
improvements to make in areas, like prevention,
early warning systems, staffing,
insurance coverage, quality control,
finances, security, and others.
Approach the recovery phase
as an opportunity to learn, reevaluate, and grow.
Crisis recovery isn't about dwelling on the past,
it's about following up with the public,
following through with promises,
making things right, repairing damages,
and creating lasting, impactful changes.
Only then can you expect your company
to truly move forward and rise above a crisis.